then David fled from Nath in Ramah and
Brenton said to Jonathan what have I
done
what is my iniquity and what is my sin
before your father that he seeks my life
by no means you shall not die indeed my
father will do nothing either great or
small without first telling me and why
should my father hide this thing from me
it is not so and David took an oath
again your father certainly knows that I
have found favor in your eyes and he has
said do not let Jonathan know this lest
he be grieved but truly as the Lord
lives and as your soul lives there is
but a step between me and death whatever
you yourself desire I will do it for you
indeed tomorrow is the new moon and I
should not fail to sit with the king to
eat but let me go that I may hide in the
field until the third day at evening if
your father misses me at all then st.
David earnestly asked permission of me
that he might run over to Bethlehem his
City for there is a yearly sacrifice
there for all the family if he says thus
it is well your servant will be safe but
if he is very angry be sure that evil is
determined by him therefore you shall
deal kindly with your servant for you
have brought your servant into a
covenant of the Lord with you
nevertheless if there is iniquity in me
kill me yourself for why should you
bring me to your father far be it from
you for if I knew certainly that evil
was determined by my father to come upon
you then would I not tell you who will
tell me but what if your father answers
you roughly come let us go out into the
field so both of them went out into the
field
when Jonathan said to David the Lord God
of Israel is witness when I have sounded
out my father sometime tomorrow or the
third day and indeed there is good
toward David and I do not send to you
and tell you
may the Lord do so and much more to
Jonathan but if it pleases my father to
do you evil then I will report it to you
and send you away that you may go in
safety and the Lord be with you as he
has been with my father and you shall
not only show me the kindness of the
Lord while I still live that I may not
die but you shall not cut off your
kindness from my house for ever
no not when the Lord has cut off every
one of the enemies of David from the
face of the earth
so Jonathan made a covenant with the
house of David let the Lord require it
at the hand of David's enemies now
Jonathan again caused David to vow
because he loved him for he loved him as
he loved his own soul then Jonathan said
to David tomorrow is the new moon and
you will be missed because your seat
will be empty and when you have stayed
three days go down quickly and come to
the place where you hid on the day of
the deed and remain by the stone he saw
then I will shoot three arrows to the
side as though I shot at a target and
there I will send a lad saying go find
the arrows if I expressly say to the lad
look the arrows are on this side of you
get them in come then as the Lord lives
there is safety for you and no harm but
if I say thus to the young man look the
arrows are beyond you go your way for
the Lord has sent you away and as for
the matter which you and I have spoken
of indeed the Lord be between you and me
forever
then David hid in the field and when the
new moon had come the King sat down to
eat the feast
[Music]
of the King sat on his seat as at other
times on a seat by the wall
and Jonathan arose and Abner sat by soul
side but David's place was empty
nevertheless soul did not say anything
that day for he thought something has
happened to him he is unclean surely he
is unclean and it happened the next day
the second day of the month the David's
place was empty and Saul said to
Jonathan his son why is the son of Jesse
not come to eat either yesterday or
today David earnestly asked permission
of me to go to Bethlehem and he said
please let me go for our family has a
sacrifice in the city and my brother has
commanded me to be there and now if I
have found favor in your eyes please let
me get away and see my brothers
therefore he has not come to the Kings
table then Saul's anger was aroused
against Jonathan and he said to him you
tion about the first rebellious woman
that you have chosen the son of Jesse to
your own shame and to the shame of your
mother's nakedness for as long as the
son of Jesse lives on the earth you
shall not be established nor your
kingdom now therefore send and bring him
to me
I shall surely die why should he be
killed what has he done and soul cast a
spear at him to kill him by which
Jonathan knew that it was determined by
his father to kill David
so Jonathan arose from the table in
fierce anger and ate no food the second
day of the month for he was grieved for
David because his father had treated him
shamefully and so it was in the morning
that Jonathan went out into the field at
the time appointed with David and a
little lad was with him then he said to
his lad now run find the arrows which I
shoot as the lad ran he shot an arrow
beyond him when the lad had come to the
place where the arrow was which Jonathan
had shot Jonathan cried out after the
lad and said is not the arrow beyond you
make haste hurry do not delay so
Jonathan's lad gathered up the arrows
and came back to his master but the lad
did not know anything only Jonathan and
David knew of the matter then Jonathan
gave his weapon to his lad and said to
him go carry them to the city as soon as
the lad had gone David arose from a
place toward the south fell on his face
to the ground and bowed down three times
and they kissed one another and they
wept together but David mosa then
Jonathan said to David go in peace since
we have both sworn in the name of the
Lord saying may the Lord be between you
and me and between your descendants and
my descendants forever so he arose and
departed and Jonathan went into the city
[Music]
you